This is Jockel Podcast number 238 with echo Charles and me, Jockel Willink. Good evening, echo. Good evening.
So you may have heard me tell a story in the past about a training tool that we used for young seal officers.
So this special training tool was a stick. Not to hit them with, but to give them to hold in place of their weapon in place of their gun.
If they couldn't detach from their instinct to shoot and replace that instinct with an instinct to lead.
Because the leader's job is not to engage the enemy. The leader's job is to make tactical decisions to direct the troops.
Find the next move that we're going to take. The leader's job is to actually lead.
There is a story. Another story of an ancient Chinese military leader who on the eve of battle was offered a sword from his subordinate.
From his subordinate leaders, which he did not accept. No, I don't want your sword. I don't want that sword.
Because to him, banners, banners and drums, which is how you would signal back in the day.
This is how you would direct troops during this time period. Those were the tools of a leader for him.
And he said to them, to command the troops and direct their blades is the role of a commander.
To wield a single sword is not his role.
Correct.
This leader was named Wu Qi. He lived from 440 to 381 BC. A philosopher.
Military philosopher, politician, and military leader. He led troops in combat.
Many battles. I want to say that number was like 60 battles. 63 battles or something like that.
During the period in history, called the Warring State's period. He ended up becoming the prime minister of the state of Chu.
And there he led a lot of reforms. He was kind of a...
He was like a default aggressive leader. A little bit radical. He would make things happen. He would fire incompetent leaders,
spent a bunch of money on the military, tried to build it up. He eliminated these old, hereditary privileges that they had back in the day.
So you can imagine that's going to make some people angry.
And he did other things that were good for the state, but let's just say against the norm.
Made things happen. On the battlefield and in the bureaucracy. And luckily he wrote down some of these military philosophies in something called the Wu Z.
The WUZ. I couldn't really figure out what that word meant. Other than what was it? Room.
Like in Chinese, the word Wu Z means room. I know that's not what we're talking about here.
And I couldn't find any other information about it. So we're just called the Wu Z.
I'm sure some people will give us some information about that.
But there's a lot of good information in this book once again written in, I don't know,
sometime before 381 BC. Which is crazy to think about.
That's crazy to think about.
Yeah. A lot of that time, even though if you look at old pictures, like the old school, black and white pictures,
you're looking at it and it's like dang. That's like, even though we understand what a photograph is.
It's a capture of real.
It's basically capture of light coming through this thing and a record of it, right?
Dude, but what it says is this right here in this little frame right here. This actually happened.
This was an actual point in time right here. There's the person. There's the people, whatever.
And yeah, you trip out when you find out like how long ago that was.
Yeah, it's weird man. And now think of somebody. This guy, Wu Chi, wrote the Wu Z in 381 BC.
That's crazy.
The idea of your very existence was not an existence.
Yeah.
Not even close to being an existence.
I mean, can you imagine trying to pull the string on your genealogy or to find out where the ancestors were back then?
Yeah. It's crazy.
Yeah, and you compare it to who kind of you are.
Yeah, yeah, you can go deep.
Another rabbit hole.
Let's go deep in the Wu Z.
First section.
We're jumping right in.
The need for strengthening domestic and external issues.
And this is sort of set up like a story, which is kind of weird because I don't know if he wrote it this way,
but people captured his words, but it's written not like too much of a story, but it says this,
Wu Chi dressed in confusion, a tire had an audience of the Lord when of way to discuss about military issues.
This is one of those situations where I was like, I don't know, one of those will be good.
I hadn't read it.
No, I'd like to look at it.
There's, I think, a seven-inch Chinese war text. This is one of them. Sunsu is one of them, right?
I'd glance through this one, but I couldn't remember enough about it to think, oh yeah, I gotta do this one.
Here's the opening.
So Lord went of way, said, I'm not interested in military affairs.
Wu Chi replied, this is like him saying, hey, wait a second.
I might not be a good call.
My brother.
He says, from the visible facts, I can deduce the hidden.
From the past, I can discern the future.
How can your Lordship say this topic does not accord with your thoughts?
He's coming out off the top rope in the opening.
Just in the opening, from the visible facts, I can deduce the hidden. From the past, I can discern the future.
How can you not want to know what I've got?
Interestingly, you know, echelon front.
Sometimes we'll get a client this way. Well, you know, you're talking a lot about a military stuff.
This is what I'm going to tell them from now on.
I'm going to say, wait a second, from visible facts, I can deduce the hidden thing.
So then he continues, this is some of these lines are really.
So then he says this, throughout the four seasons, you have gathered the skins of wild animals, covered them with, with lacquer, painted them with colors, and embellished them with glistening images of rhinoceros and elephants.
So he's talking about making these garments. These really fancy garments. Then he says this, wearing them in winter does not keep one warm, wearing them in summer does not make one cool.
So you've done all this, you make all these fancy things, they have no real purpose.
And he's kind of setting this up to say, moreover, the Lord has ordered the making of 24 feet and 12 feet long halberds, which is like a,
you're seeing those spears that have instead of having just a point to have like an ax looking thing on it.
Oh, yeah, yeah. So that's what that is. So he's made. He's ordered to make 24 foot ones and 12 foot ones and had leathers to cover the chariots.
These chariots are not grand and beautiful. These chariots are not mobile enough for hunting, meaning they're not beautiful. So they're not made for show. They're not mobile enough for hunting.
So they're made for one thing. He says, I have no idea what you have, what you should have for them. If they are to be used for war, but your Lord does not seek capable people who are adept in using them such a situation is similar to an arresting hen fighting against a fox or a bitch fighting a tiger.
Yeah, this guy's built up some cool looking things.
He's a paper tiger, right? Got nobody that knows how to operate these things. Although they have great fighting spirit, they will still die.
In the past, the Lord of Chang sang, Clan focused on improving the culture and domestic issues, but neglected military affairs, thereby leading to the extinction of the state.
The Lord of you who Clan was belligerent, thus he focused on military affairs and neglected domestic affairs. He too led the state to extinction.
So he gives two examples. One guy focused on domestic and didn't care about the military. They fell apart. One was just belligerent and making world a time, but not taking care of the domestic, that fell apart.
And lightning ruler would have used such examples to remind him that he should tend to both domestic affairs and military affairs together.
When the enemy comes and you do not fight them, such does not count as righteousness.
So the enemy is coming at you, you got to fight them.
And you all, this is a good one. When you only start grieving the death of your soldiers after they have died, such does not count as benevolence.
Man, you got to take care of your soldiers before they die.
And then it says, there, upon Lord when personally laid a mat for Wu Qi and his wife and presented Wu Qi with the goblin of wine, the Lord later invited Wu Qi to the ancestral temple and appointed him as a commander in chief for the defense of the Western rivers.
He's like, all right, this guy's got some good, put some in charge.
From then on, Wu Qi altogether fought 76 battles. Oh, I was wrong. He knocked out a couple more.
Winning 64 of them decisively, the other battles result in draw. He expanded ways territory and all directions.
Broadening ways border by a thousand by a thousand Lee, which is about a third of a mile.
All of these were Wu Qi's accomplishments. So, isn't it cool that he's just got a record like an MMA fighter? He's like, hey, 76 battles, 64, 64 wins and whatever the number is draws.
That's his record. This dude's got a combat battle record.
That's freaking legit. All right, now it goes into unity and the people support. So that's the opener. And this thing is pretty straightforward. Pretty straightforward. It jumps goes through pretty succinct sections.
This part's called unity and people support.
Wu Qi said, in antiquity, the ruling who planned to run his state well would teach the Enlightened and Enlightened the people, be close to the people and understand their sufferings.
Do I not talk about this all the time? Like, you got to understand where your people are coming from.
You got to understand their perspective. And you know, I use that.
I don't know if I do think it's it's okay, or do you think that I have some kind of a subliminal problem with the word empathy?
It wouldn't surprise me. I don't know. I guess maybe I did because I always say you got to understand other people's perspective.
That whole word can be replaced with just that whole sentence can just be say empathy.
Yeah, that's what empathy means.
Yeah, I know. I know. So I guess I have some sort of a natural prejudice against that word.
Yeah. You know, maybe it's something where in my mind it sounds too soft.
We're not doing it.
Yeah, like the word, like the word moist. I don't know why, but that I don't like that word.
Yeah.
Even when you know how somewhere, I don't like it when I say it, but other people can say it, but I okay, that makes sense.
I'm not okay, but moist is one that anyone says, what the way it sounds or just the thoughts it gives you.
But all of the whole deal when someone else says it, like, oh, even like, you know, I step here in the ground and it was moist.
I'm like, oh, don't say something else, man.
Say damp. I don't know. Actually damp.
Damp sounds drier than moist.
Yes.
You see, it was kind of, I don't know, man, just don't say moist.
Okay.
Yeah. And I'll refrain from saying it too. It's kind of that feeling.
Yeah.
So that's what we're dealing with here.
Yes.
What he's talking about is empathy. What I say is perspective, but we're all saying the same thing.
You got to understand your people.
There are four disharminies the ruler should take note of.
If there is disharminy in the state, you cannot start a military campaign.
If there is disharminy with in the army, they cannot be allowed to battle.
If there is disharminy within the formation, they cannot be used to lead an attack.
If there is a lack of cohesion during the conduct of battle, you cannot score a victory.
What does that mean? You got to be unified as a group.
For this reason, the eminent ruler before he employs his people, he would unite them first before achieving great matters together.
The ruler, this is why when you're in a team and you're doing anything that is pulling the team apart,
you're not doing a good job as a leader.
The ruler will not dare rely solely on his own plans.
But we'll announce formally at the ancestral temple.
When I was reading this, I was like, oh, this is going to be decentralized command, but it's not really.
You're actually after the announcement of your ancestral temple and then sort of get the divine sort of approval from the heavens.
That's what it's talking about.
We're just still cool. Like I'm not a down of that, but I was hoping you'd be a little bit more focused on decentralized command rather than the higher power.
But then he says, people will then know that the ruler value their lives.
Will be sorrowed by their deaths and willing to share, wheel and woe with them.
New word, W-E-A-L-W.
And what it means is wealth.
Just take the TH off.
He uses it a couple times.
You bite, it's a great expression.
Got a little little iteration ham willing to share wheel and woe.
So good or bad.
Sickness and help.
There you go.
Wheel and woe.
I think wheel and woe might be better.
Yeah, I think so.
Officers will then consider death while advancing is glorious.
And life gained through retreating is disgraceful.
So all these things, what does it mean?
You've got to build a tight team.
You've got to have good relationships up and down the chain of command.
You've got to suffer with your troops.
You've got to reward them when there's rewards to be given.
Oh, good stuff.
That's it. That's on unity and people support.
Next section.
Four virtues of a ruler.
Wichy said, the way is actually knowing is actually how things should be done.
It means it is the means by which one can turn back to foundation and return to beginning.
Righteousness is ethical behavior.
It is the means by which to achieve great accomplishments.
What we're analyzing is the means by which to harm distant, keep harm distant and gain benefits.
So you strategize to keep harm distant and you gain benefits.
Principles are which to preserve duty and keep achievements.
If one's behavior does not accord with the way and righteousness,
but dwells in magnificent magnificence and enjoys power.
Disaster will inevitably befall him.
You've got to keep that ego in check.
If you dwell in magnificence and enjoy power, you've got thisaster coming your way.
Thus the wise ruler will run the state according to the way.
Manage the state with righteousness.
The orders that order the people with propriety and rule the people with benevolence,
cultivating these four virtues and the state will flourish neglecting them would lead to decline.
Well, take care of your people and your people will take care of you.
I wrote that in leadership strategy and tactics.
The expression in the seal teams was take care of your gear and your gear will take care of you.
It doesn't seem like a huge leap to say take care of your people and your people will take care of you.
But man, that's a good thing to remember.
And that's what my boy, Wu Chi, is saying right here.
Take care of your people and your people are going to take care of you.
Righteousness and doing the right things is another thing I do the right things with the right reasons.
That's righteousness.
Next section, running the state and victory.
Wu Chi said in general, to govern the state and the army, you must instruct them with propriety,
motivate them with righteousness and instill a sense of shame in them.
When men have a sense of shame, one can to a large degree wage a war or to a lesser degree, preserve the state.
What does that mean?
It reminds me of World War I in England.
Have you ever, I don't know where we talked about on this podcast, they used to give the white flower to,
if you were a military-aged male and you weren't in uniform, meaning you weren't serving,
and everyone else was going overseas and fighting, they would give you a white flower.
Like a real white flower.
And it was shame.
Yeah.
It was shame.
And that's one of the things that just drove those men to go and fight in that awful war.
Everyone is dying, everyone is being wounded, everyone is being killed.
It's a total nightmare.
You know what was worse than that?
Like a shame.
And that's what he's saying.
Scarlet Letter, remember that book?
Yeah.
That same deal.
Thus it is said that for all strong states those that garner five victories will meet with disaster.
So if you win five times you're going to meet with disaster.
Four victories, you're going to decline three victories, you're going to achieve head-gen money,
which means you're like kind of in control.
Those with two victories can claim to be kings and those with only one victory will become members.
For this reason, those who have conquered through numerous victories are rare,
while those that perished because of it are many.
This reminds me of the disease of victory.
It's like the more you win, the better chance you have a fall.
Next, reasons for war and its counter strategies.
Wu Qi said there are five reasons why wars are started and they are to contend for fame,
to contend for benefits and advantages, to seek revenge, internal strife, and famine.
The names of wars raised based on these reasons are righteous, bully, anger, plundering, contrary.
The righteous army is raised to save people from chaos, relying on strength or power to bully people,
such as a bully army, mobilizing an army out of anger is an anger army.
An army raised to greedily seek profit without consideration for moral and ethics is called a plundering army,
while the country is in turmoil and the people are exhausted and barking on military campaigns
and mobilizing masses is termed contrary.
Interesting viewpoints?
A bully army.
Next, section managing troops selecting talents strengthening.
Now we go to a little Q&A from the Lord Wu.
I would like to hear your thoughts on managing troops selecting talents strengthening nation.
Wu Qi said from antiquity, in lighten rulers always make every effort to maintain
propriety between themselves and their ministers manifest the distinction of rank,
allow the officials and people to settle into their respective positions that accord with their
customs, select and recruit talents in order to prepare for the unexpected.
Pretty straightforward.
He says the ruler of a strong state must evaluate his people first.
And then he breaks this down a little bit.
Those who have courage and strength should be assembled into a unit.
Those who take pleasure in advancing into battle and exerting their strength,
so as to manifest their loyalty and courage should be assembled into another unit.
Those who are nimble and fleet should be assembled into another unit.
Officials who have lost their position and are eager to make a men's should be assembled into a unit.
Those who have lost in war and want to eradicate their disgrace should be assembled into a unit.
These five will serve to be the elite troops.
With 3,000 of such men one can break any encirclement or break into any city.
Those are kind of some cool people to think about, right?
You know, we got the people that just love to fight.
We got people that want to prove that loyalty.
We got people that are quick.
We got people that have lost their position.
I think those people got to watch out for.
Yeah, I guess I mean on the surface anyway it seems like you have to watch out for some sort of an infighting scenario.
Maybe in some of those but otherwise it's like, yeah, you've sanded out your little elite.
What is all specialized forces, you know, these guys they like to do this.
So listen them in under these circumstances, you know?
It's interesting.
It's like weapons like tools, you know?
You know what's it's interesting to think about from like, oh, what you should actually do is understand human nature and know what you're dealing with.
Right? Like you've got somebody that gets defeated.
Somebody that, you know, loses a client.
How do they react to it? They might be, oh, ready to go boss. Put me in coach.
Right? You might have somebody that gets defeated and gets broken down.
Yeah.
Got to pay attention to that stuff.
Next section, strength and offense and defense, Lord Wu further inquired, I would like to hear your views on making battle formation stable, defensive,
impregnable and victory in battle certain.
That's kind of a massive question. How do you make my defense impregnable and victory in battle certain?
Once Wu cheeset that, he replied, Wu cheeset replied, what I am saying is not only for hearing, carrying them out would allow you to see immediate effect.
So he said, if you did what I said and could put those men together, you're going to get immediate effect.
He's actually stepping up. He's like, oh, that's your question.
If you have worthy men hold high positions and relatively less worthy men occupy low position, then your battle formations are stable.
If people settle down into the respective positions, respect their local authorities, then defense is solid.
When the people support the policies of their government and not concerned about those other states, then in battle, you will already be victorious.
This is a very interesting concept that picture you have a team.
This is what happened in the sealed team. Sometimes they put together these kind of superplotoons where they would take a bunch of really good guys and put them in there.
And all of a sudden, what you have is a bunch of alphas in the same platoon.
And do you think that works out well? What's your guess?
Well, the fact that you brought it up makes me think no.
But why?
Because everyone has a simple answer is like everyone's trying to be the alpha, right?
And I think.
But yeah, it's like in a team, just like all those guys, there's different types of guys for different jobs and a team, there's different jobs, typically.
So it's interesting that he would say what he's saying is, you know, you put your alphas in there, you put an alpha in there and then you put some betas in there and everyone kind of goes into there.
Natural position is going to be the most positive thing.
Now here's what I'll tell you.
In life, you're not always going to be putting that situation and you might be the alpha.
And you get put in with another alpha.
So now what are you going to do?
If you're smart, what you'll do is subordinate, you go, support that other person.
Or you know, maybe you're just enough, maybe they do that.
But what you don't want to do is fight with that person.
You're ruining the team.
Yeah.
There's things called logical fallacies.
It's like a bunch of them or whatever.
And that's one of them.
And there are actually two of them that are kind of one is one and then the other is flipped around and it's essentially that.
Where it's like individuals.
Like if an individual is a level five and you get you put three of them in there that makes it a level 15.
It's not the case.
It's logically, it seems the case, but it's like a fallacy for that reason.
Yeah.
And then the inverse is right to where it's like if you have a team worth 15, if you just break them up, you got three five's rolling around performing at five.
That's not true either because they can function better together for that exact same reason.
But it's like the inverse fallacy.
Yeah.
And if you get what it's called, though.
You can have a leadership team that just completely compliments each other and they can be unstoppable.
And then you pull one person out of you pull two people out of that team and they fall apart.
Yeah.
Or at the very least level down.
So yeah.
I mean it makes sense when you think about it.
But there's so many.
It's weird.
I was like reading all these fouls.
I was like, can't us true.
That's a whole dang.
And it's because you automatically think these things.
You know, this is a bunch of them.
But yeah.
That makes sense.
Important of seeking talent.
There was once there was once when Lord Will was planning a state affairs.
He discovered that none of his ministers could be equal to him.
After dismissing the court, he wore a happy and satisfied look.
So he there he is.
He's running a show.
He's like, man, I'm smarter than everybody.
This is awesome.
Woo, she saw that and said.
There was once Lord Scheng of two was planning state affairs with his ministers.
He discovered that none of his ministers could equal his intelligence.
After he had dismissed the court, he looked very troubled.
A official Shen asked him, why does your lower ship or such troubled countenance?
And then it's already looks so bummed out.
And he said, I am not talented yet none of my ministers are equal to me.
Our state is in deep trouble.
And then when when when Wu Chee tells the story, the guy he's talking to gets embarrassed.
Because what does that statement say?
That statement says, around your people would bet beef.
Around yourself with people that are better than you, smarter than you.
That's what that says.
If you're smarter, if you're the smartest person in the room, you're an allusing team.
You should feel horrible.
National next section, National alertness.
Lord Wu addressed Wu Chee.
At present, King coerces us on the west.
Two encircles us in the south.
Chow collides with me in the north.
And key encroaches us from the east.
Yann cuts off our rear and Han at occupies the front.
These six states around us and we have to defend against them.
Our situation is precarious and it worries me.
What can be done about this?
Wu Chee said, in general, being alert of danger is true measure of good governance and
Cheering security of the state.
As you have now recognized the importance of being cautious disaster can be kept away.
So all the guys around and he's like, what are going to do?
Pay attention to it.
Nothing too miraculous there.
Next section, providing opportunity for talent.
Within the army, there will be soldiers whose courage is that of a tiger.
Has strengths that he can lift tri-pods easily and has the sweetness of a barbarian horse.
I tried to figure out if there's some root word to tri-pods.
It's like a stool, a three-legged desk.
I couldn't find that there was some ancient thing that was really heavy.
So we're just going to move that.
We have to use our imaginations on that one.
To seize enemies flag or kill enemies, generals you need such men.
You should select them and put them into one unit, honor them and favor them.
This is because in their hands holds the fate of the whole army.
Those who are experts in weapons strong and quick and capable and motivated to kill enemies,
they should be given rank and prominence.
We should also treat the family well, encourage them with rewards and warn them with punishment.
This is because such people can solidly hold their position for a long time and exterminate enemies.
If the ruler can discern and evaluate men described, you can attack double force your strength.
Lord, we've exclaimed great.
People, you know you get asked that question a lot.
What do you do when you get the high performers on a team?
Do you focus on them?
Clearly the answer here is yes, and that's usually the answer that I give as well.
You do have to keep a bench.
You have to have other people and you have to continue to work to get your bench to become high performers.
So you don't ignore the bench.
When you get to an opportunity to give them some playing time, give them some playing time.
But definitely focus on those.
Once that are definitely going to get up there and make things happen.
Enemies you can attack next section.
Woochi said in general when evaluating the enemy, there are eight conditions under which one engages battle without doing an assessment.
You don't have to think about these. These are no brainers. These are go criteria.
In violent winds and extreme clothes, they arise early and are on the march while barely awake and breaking ice to cross dreams.
So these guys are cold, they're miserable and they're tired. You can just attack them.
Next one, in the burning heat of summer, they arise late and press forward with haste through hunger and thirst, concentrating on reaching far off objectives.
You see them? Attack them.
The army has been out in the field for an extended period. Their food supplies are exhausted.
The people are resentful and angry.
Numerous bail for potence or rise with the officers unable to squash them.
You see them? Attack them.
The army's resources have been already been exhausted. Firewood and hair scares.
Weather frequently cloudy and rady.
And if they even wandered up plunder for supplies, there's nowhere to do it.
Clear hot attack them.
The troops that are mobilized are not large. The terrain and water are not advantageous.
The men and horses are sick and worn out with no assist from their allies.
Attack them. The road is far off in the sun and setting.
The officers in men of labor long and are fearful. They are tired and not eaten.
They're just cast aside. They're armor. Attack them.
The generals are weak. The official irresponsible.
The officers in troops are not solid. The whole army is frequently in fear.
And the troops lack assistance. Attack them.
Their formations are not yet formed. Their encampment not yet finished.
Or they are passing through dangerous territory. Only half their troops are out of it.
In these eight conditions, you can attack without any doubts.
Enemies you cannot attack other end of the spectrum.
There are six circumstances without performing too much assessment you should avoid conflict.
The land is broad and vast. The people are wealthy and numerous.
Avoid conflict.
The government loves the people. The ruler.
The ruler's goodness extends and flows to all.
Isn't that an interesting one?
When you have a ruler that takes care of his people, don't even attack him.
Think about that. Think about that as a leader. How you treat your team?
When you treat your team well, when you take care of your team, the enemy shouldn't even attack you because they know what's going to happen.
You're reading from a paper right now.
Where did you get that? Obviously, it's a book.
I got it from the depths of the internet.
Was it like a PDF situation?
No.
You know, I don't. I see a lot of times in my life.
When I'm browsing the internet, when I find a good document,
I just download that document or copy paste it and I put it into this file, which is called books and PDFs.
So in this thing, books and PDFs, sometimes I'll go, oh yeah, I'll see something remind me of it or I'll think of it.
And I'll just go and go in there.
And that's where I forget where this actually came from, because it was just in my personal file that says books and PDFs, which is filled with ancient military documents.
It's an F field manuals and that's where it came from.
So it's the, I'm sure you could go Google it and you'd find it on the internet somewhere.
Hmm.
Just, yeah.
Number three, rewards and punishment system is fair and transparent and is implemented in a timely fashion.
You shouldn't even attack somebody that treats their people fairly and transparently.
Think about that.
Number four, people are rewarded according to their accomplishment and the talented are an able are employed.
Got a talented team, we're not going to play.
Forces are massive and well equipped, I think that is pretty self-evident.
They have assistance of all their neighbors in the support of a powerful state. Okay, cool.
So those, those were maybe both those sections, little obvious.
Well, which makes you wonder why you have to say it.
And I know the answer to the question that I just asked the reason that you have to say it is because people still don't.
Even execute on things that seem really obvious.
Like, hey, where the forces are massive and well equipped, we should not attack them.
Go look at history as obvious as it is people do it all the time.
Yeah, one of those things where it's like, okay, are you going to work hard or are you going to work smart?
I'm really both, I get it, but you know, when people are faced in the mix and it's like,
work hard, work smart is kind of like, okay, not a lot of people say, I mean, I don't
want to say not a lot, but I'm just saying there are people, let's say on a normal level,
quantity wise who are going to be like, hey, hard all day and turn their back on the smart part.
You know, I guess it seems understandable. Yeah, if you know, I mean detached, it's kind of like,
sure, I'm going to play this the smartest I possibly can.
I'm just for sure, but I'm going to play this the smartest given how much force I have.
Big small, whatever. Yeah, the follow that makes sense, but I don't know, I guess it's maybe not the most obvious.
Here's the deal. It's so obvious from the outside. Right.
It's watching a movie. It's watching a lame horror movie where you're watching the girl, you know,
with the hero noise downstairs in the basement. Everybody knows she goes down their barefoot, like super obvious.
Yeah, but this happens all the time, not just in movies. People do dumb stuff. A lot.
People do dumb stuff. A lot.
Let's do.
Check if in general, if you are no match for the enemy in these areas, without a doubt, avoid them.
This is what I meant by C possibility and advanced knowing difficulty and withdrawal.
So, if you see possibility advance, if you see difficulty withdraw, pretty straightforward.
Next section, detecting the enemy's situation. Lord Wu inquired from the external appearance.
I would love to be able to know their internal situations from their advance.
I would know their objective from these. I am able to predict victory or defeat.
What is your opinion of this?
Wu Qi replied, if the enemy approaches in large numbers, but in disarray, their flags and formations are a mess,
and the troops frequently look about.
But using one tenth of their strength, we can invariably cause them to be helpless.
So, if they're just looking rag tag, no factor.
If reinforcements, if reinforcement has not arrived, there is disunity within the troops.
Preparations for defense has not been completed.
Orders and rules have not been announced. The morale of the army is shaken.
They cannot advance a retreat. You can defeat the enemy with half of the strength that never lose it all.
What's interesting about this perception is, when my first opponent to Iraq, we were running around and thinst,
in Humvees, meaning there was no armor. It was just super sketch. And one of the things we did, we would actually brief that everyone was responsible for scanning targets, looking,
and making our convoy look like a convoy that you don't want to upset.
So, we called it the porky bind of death.
Because we had guys in the back of our home, we had articulating weapons.
So, we had weapons mounted, crew serve weapons mounted on articulating arms.
You've got one of those on each side. You probably had another couple machine gunners in the back.
Anyways, they've got their weapons pointed out. Everyone has got a weapon pointed out of that vehicle.
You've also got the turret going to accept for the driver. The driver's the only one that's not pointing a weapon.
So, those were some, if you were looking at that, you see five humvies, and you see, I don't know, there's six guns on each humvie.
And some of them are heavy caliber weapons, belt-fed machine guns.
As I'm thinking about it even right now, I'm thinking if I was an insurgent, I would probably wait till the next convoy where it's all buttoned up.
You know, people are sitting inside, they're looking straight ahead. We turned to our seats on the humvies because we now have doors. We turned the seats to face outwards.
Yeah.
For two reasons, one, so that we could see and have a better angle to shoot, but also because there are chest plates of our body armor, we'd be then facing the enemy.
As opposed to sitting where they shoot you in the side.
But just imagine, you know, we would ride like our, we're facing sideways.
Yeah. And our feet are out of the vehicle and we're just scanning for targets. And so when you see these humvies, you think, you know what?
Yeah.
That's not messing with these guys.
Gun barrels pointing at you, no matter where you are.
No matter where you are.
We call that, that was our posture.
Yeah.
And we wanted to have an aggressive posture, and we most certainly did.
We also, you know, and those were the, were the Mad Max days.
So we welded these big crazy, you know, bumpers on them and we'd put tires on the front. So we could just get aggressive.
Yeah.
Get aggressive while driving.
And my point is we didn't, we got to ambush a few times, but when you consider the amount of time we were on the road, I think there was probably quite a few.
Insurgency, enemy that decided maybe they'd wait until the next convoy.
Next up, weaknesses you can attack.
Are there circumstances where the enemy can invariably be attacked?
Lord Wu and quiet?
Wu Qi replied, in employing the army, you must ascertain the enemy's strengths and weaknesses.
If you spot an opportunity to attack, attack his weaknesses,
below are the situations you can attack an enemy.
When the enemy has just arrived from afar, and their battle formations are not yet properly formed and deployed.
Again, this is going to run through a list of things that seem really kind of obvious.
If they have just eaten and not let yet establish their encampment, they can be attacked.
If they are on the move and the troops formation is disarray, they can be attacked.
If they have labored hard, they can be attacked.
If they had not seized advantages of the train, they can be attacked.
When they have not seized any critical, the critical timing they can be attacked.
When their flags and banners move about, chaoticly, they can be attacked.
When they have traversed a great distance, their supplies and reinforcements just arrived in the whole troops have not rested.
They can be attacked.
It goes on.
When crossing the river and only half of them across, they can be attacked.
On treacherous terrain, on narrow roads, they can be attacked.
When formation trains frequently, they can be attacked.
When a general is separated from his soldiers, they can be attacked.
When they are afraid, they can be attacked.
In general, in such circumstances, select crack troops and make a swift attack on them.
Divide remaining troops and continue the assault repeatedly.
Factors in using troops, Lord Wu asked, in using troops what is primary?
Wu Qi replied, first, you need to be clear about the four principles of lightness,
the two principles of heaviness and the one principle on integrity.
Lord Wu asked, what are they?
Wu Qi said, these are kind of cool.
The four principles of lightness means the terrain that the horses, the terrain feels that the horses are light.
The horses will feel that the chariot is light.
The chariot will feel that the soldiers on it are light and the soldiers feel that the burden of war is light.
And he breaks his down a little bit more.
The terrain feels that the horses means that one should choose a suitable terrain that would not hamper from the enemy.
That would not hamper the movement of the horses.
Thus, the terrain would feel that the horses are light.
If the horses are properly fed, they will be strong in thus when they are pulling chariots, they would feel that the chariots are light.
If the axles of the chariots are well-oiled, sturdy and properly maintained, they can move soldiers easily.
Thus, the chariots will feel that the soldiers are light.
If the soldiers have sharp weapons and their armor are sturdy, they will feel confident about winning.
Thus, the burden of war will be light.
So, there's the four lights.
For the courageous that advance, they should be rewarded heavily.
For those that retreat, they should be punished heavily.
So, there's the two heavies.
There are four lights, two heavies, and the last one is integrity.
There are two principles.
These are the two principles of heaviness.
As for integrity, it refers to the integrity of rewards and punishment system.
If the rulers to take note and implement these principles, the troops can achieve victory.
It all kind of starts with picking good terrain.
Man, it was a so much focus if you're in combat arms, so much focus should be all in understanding terrain.
And then as you map that into the civilian sector and jobs and businesses, you need to understand what the terrain is.
What's the market like, where are people located, where are your competitors?
What is their encampment like?
You can translate this stuff.
And you can utilize terrain.
That's the thing.
terrain on the battlefield is the best weapon, right?
It's like positioning in jiu-jitsu.
When you get the right terrain, it's like you have good position in jiu-jitsu.
When you get good terrain in business, you have that kind of massive advantage.
Gaining control of the army.
Lord, who asked what measures will ensure the soldiers will be victorious?
This guy's asking these questions.
This is kind of like those questions that are, hey, how do you pass the ID pass the guard, right?
It's like how do you get around their legs?
You know what?
Go on there.
But Wuchi has an answer because Wuchi's not playing.
Control is foremost.
Lord, who asked again, is it not a matter of numbers?
Wuchi says, if the laws and orders are not clear rewards and punishments not met, meet it out.
When the sounding of the gongs will not cause him to halt or the beating of the drums,
will not make them advance even if you have a million men what you saw they.
Control is achieved by training and management.
At any time discipline is strict and during war, they move and attack with all.
Their advance with draw, stride is measured the left and right, look out for each other, even if we cover move.
Even if broken off from the main order, they preserve their formations decentralized command.
Even if they scatter, they will reform lines.
The whole army is very united and share wheel and whoa together.
When they are employed, they do not feel tired.
No matter where you dispatch them, no one can withstand them, such armies are called the father and son army.
Doesn't go any more detail about the father and son army.
But that whole thing, you know, decentralized command discipline.
When they are employed, they do not feel tired.
Think about that.
Think about that year in your personal life.
You can be tired going into a workout and mentally tired.
I'm tired, I want to go to sleep.
When you start working out and you're actively engaged and not tired anymore, I never feel tired when I'm actually doing something.
Seriously.
That's crazy, right?
Yes, it is crazy.
I mean, I have to stop doing something and then I can get tired.
Takes about 40 minutes.
Yeah, actually that makes sense.
But it does depend on what kind of tired you're talking about.
So, you know, how there's like the three tires?
I don't know about the three tires.
I know that one is obviously physically tired.
So when you're working out and you're doing your third set of burpees as fast as you can.
Yeah, that's a different kind of time.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
So you can, um, that's one.
Is that one?
Is that type one tired?
That's type two and three tired.
Yes.
Okay.
And keep in mind, I said the three tires, like it's this known thing.
The type three, the three types of tired is the three types of tired that I recognize myself.
Okay, so this is the echo trough the principles.
The ancient principles of echo troughs.
There's sleepy tired.
Well, fatigue is a general sleepy tired.
Sleepy tired.
Is that the doctrinal name for it?
That is sleepy tired.
It's so far.
Yes.
Uh, that's the one you're talking about.
Where you're a little sleepy tired, but you're not the other two kinds of tired.
You can just warm up a little bit.
Get the blood flowing.
You know, maybe boost some adrenaline in some capacity and you're rolling your good to go.
You stop.
You're going to go back to sleepy tired a little bit.
Then there's like, then there's lungs tired, meaning like my muscles are working, but I'm
Breathing so hard that I, that like relief is like you just need.
He need really from that.
So you got to rest whatever.
Long time sleepy tired.
Long time tired.
And then we have muscular tired.
The killer tired like straight up musk is.
Can't believe this bar anymore.
Yeah.
You get to like all of those kind of come into play.
Where sleepy tired?
Yeah.
So you can be sleepy tired before you get on the mass, but once you start rolling, it goes away.
Okay.
That's how you recover from sleepy tired in your juice.
You just to sleepy tired comes before the roll.
You're the same thing.
So now in your get to you can have a guy who has fast pace guy and you'll be long tired.
Like you'll be like, like, this guy's sure.
But muscular.
You can still push him.
But you're just breathing so hard and he gets you in some kind of claustrophobic situation.
You're in big trouble.
Depends on who you are of course.
But if you're muscular fatigue tired, you're not like breathing hard.
You know, like, I mean, that I guess typically happens if you're like really not in shape and you go like a few rounds, you know?
Or if you're just been rolling all day.
Well, the well, I tell you where I get muscular tired is like you either are giving or receiving a singular move for an extended period of time.
I.e.
You get my arm and I'm defending for four and a half minutes.
Muscular tired.
Yeah, you can't.
Yeah, and it applies to you muscular tired too.
By the way, yeah, right?
Of course, because it happens to both of us.
Yeah, fully and it'll, you know, obviously dependent on how good a shape certain muscles are, muscle groups, whatever.
And it can apply to individual muscles or parts of your body or your whole body.
Like you ever felt like, probably body is it all getting up.
It's like, it's like your whole body is muscular tired.
But you're not breathing hard or nothing.
You just like, oh, I'm dead, you know, kind of thing.
It's like, you know, if you roll for like a long time that tends to happen, it makes.
It makes.
Yeah.
But yeah, that's three times of tired.
Three types of tired.
Ancient echo Charles doctrine.
You.
Fully sleepy tired.
That's my favorite one, bro.
Sleepy tired.
Because you know, that's the same word, right?
Uh, well, you know, because depends on what you mean, not necessarily.
I guess you know what?
The Eskimo's have what, when they always say the Eskimo's have a hundred words for snow or something like that.
Well, the winds of two words for water, so it's like, okay, what?
Well, actually there might be more, but there's water like on a river and there's the ocean water because they're like different things, you know, in their mind, even though they're made the same liquid, whatever, each two, oh, because sometimes the salt in one of them, but.
No less.
You see how they can be different.
Yeah.
From a certain approach, you seem saying, do they know the two Hawaiian words for water?
Yeah, a Hawaiian guy.
Which one's which?
Vies river water or like lakes or, you know, like what's what, if you were going to ask for a drink of
water, what would you ask for?
I don't know.
That's another one.
That could be a whole different thing.
Yeah.
You might want to know the interesting.
Back with our people.
Yeah.
Figure out what the deal is there.
Oh, yeah.
And that's why like there's a lot of like towns and even names or whatever they'll have Kai in them or five.
It's actually five, but it's spelled WWE.
So Kai, K-I is the ocean water.
That's their referring to the ocean waters.
Lots of people named Kai too.
Exactly.
Right.
Kai, something, you know, or it could be part of it, you know, like you can, you can have names like,
you know, Kai Noah or, you know, Kai Lani here, this and that.
And Kai Lani roughly translates to beautiful ocean.
Lani is like beautiful or you know, loving or something.
You know, there's a bunch of translations for sure.
We're not putting you on this spot.
Yeah, I'm digging deep in my, you know, Hawaiian right now.
But nonetheless, yes, Kai.
If you say, Mokai, that's like a position slash location.
That's what I mean towards the ocean.
That's towards the ocean.
Yeah.
If they mouth, that means towards the mountain.
The mountain side.
Yeah, mountain side exactly.
But anyway, yes.
Three words for tired, two words for water, you know, Hawaiian and, you know,
cool.
Here you go.
All right.
We're going to go with that.
I like it.
Next one notes on marching armies.
Woo Chi said in general, the way to command a marching army is not to contra interbene,
not to contraen veen the proper timing, advancement and stopping.
Not missed the appropriate times for eating and drinking and not completely exhaust the strength of the
mountain horses.
These three are the means by which troops can undertake the orders from their
superiors.
When the orders of the superiors are followed, controlled, achieved, if advancing and
resting are not a proper timing, the drinking and eating are not timely.
When the horses are tired, the mental weary are not allowed to relax and in camp.
Then they will be unable to carry out the commanders order.
If they're unable to carry out the order, they're going to be defeated.
Dave Burke got asked.
Good do that.
Yes.
Got asked a question today on EF online.
And this one guy named Evan was asking, you know, hey, my team right now needs to get after it.
Big down.
And we can't take a break, but people are burned out.
And if we don't keep going right now, we're not going to make it.
And Dave Burke, he said, well, do you really, do you know what I mean?
Really?
And then the guy said, you know, it's like a marathon.
We're in a marathon.
If we stop, we won't finish.
And Dave's works like, actually, you can be in a marathon and you can stop.
And you can still finish.
Actually, you can take a break.
And then you want to, he say, Max Q. Oh, yeah.
So there's three modes of speed in a jet fighter.
Max Q is we're going as fast as we possibly can.
Max R is, hey, our range is, we're going to go as far as we can, which I'm, because obviously,
if you're going as fast, you can, you might not be able to go as far because you're burning
more fuel.
And then the last one was Max E, which was, I think it's Max efficiency, meaning we're just going to stay flying as long as we can.
Gotcha.
And so he said, you got to know him to push.
You got to back off. Then he pushed for a second, then he back off.
That he's, and Dave was saying almost never.
Well, he would, he said all the time. They would be constantly going between Max Q, Max R, Max E,
and just going back and forth between these things real quick.
One more time, Max Q.
Yeah.
Is that far can we, how far?
No, sorry, Max Q is as fast as we can possibly go.
And then Max, I don't know if the normal is Max.
Yeah, it's Max Q. Max R is now, it's just, yep.
And then the last one was Max E.
So R is as far as you can go straight up, whatever speed we're just trying to get there, trying to, we're trying to get as far as we can.
Yeah. And then Max E is like basically as far as fast.
No, Max E is staying in the air.
Like we want to be able to stay in the air.
Gotcha.
Because there's an optimum time where we might be going slower, but we're saving a lot of fuel.
Okay.
And if we went faster, we could go further, but not as long.
We just want to stay in the air.
Okay. I understand. Yeah. Okay. That makes sense.
It's kind of like jujitsu, right?
Yeah.
Yeah. In your body, you have similar energy systems too.
What is it?
An aerobic aerobic?
Like a rocket.
And then aerobic.
An aerobic.
Lactic acid.
And aerobic.
A aerobic.
Yeah.
Three systems.
And there are blend.
It's not like, you know, they blend into each other kind of things.
It's not like, oh, you know.
Next one, decisiveness.
Woochi said, in general.
I'm going to change my voice a little bit.
Yeah. I think we got to go a little heavy on this one.
In general, on the battlefield, soon to become a land of corpses.
If the soldiers are committed to fighting to death, they will live.
Whereas if they seek to stay alive, they will die.
Excellent.
Got to be aggressive.
If you're scared of dying, the chances of dying increase.
A general, a good general act as if they are on a sinking boat or trapped in a burning building.
There is not enough time for the war to, for the wise to make plans or the courageous to get angry.
Only thought that one can have is to fight.
Thus, it is said that the greatest harm can be fallen army.
Is the result of hesitation while the disasters that default the whole army is a result of too much doubts leading to slowness.
What a patency, a good plan executed now is better than an imperfect plan executed in two weeks.
Those are good ones.
Education and training of armies, Wucci said in war men constantly perished from their inability and are defeated by unfamiliar.
Thus, when deploying troops, training should be given the priority.
One man who has been trained in warfare can instruct 10 men.
10 men can train 100 men, 100 men can train 1000 men.
1000 men can train 10,000 men.
Can train a whole army.
Use the advantage of being near to counter enemy that comes from afar.
Use the advantage being well-rested to counter an enemy that's been labored.
Use the advantage of being satiated to counter the enemy that is hungry.
Having them from deploying in circular formations and change to square ones have been set.
Then get up and move and hold.
Have them hold.
Move left to right, right to left.
He's talking about how to train these people.
How have them divide and combine.
You unite them and disperse them when all these changes are familiar.
Provide them with weapons.
All these mentioned are great.
I used to do this with, I did this all the time.
I would take my seal, puttune, take my seal, task, you know.
Go on in the beach.
We wouldn't even have, we would just be wearing PT shorts and pairs, whatever, sneakers.
And get in our patrol formation and then go contact front, contact right, contact left, set up fuel, peel right, peel left, and call these random calls.
And people just have to figure it out and you start going, you come with me.
Here's a new call and people start taking ownership and people start making things happen.
You start seeing this and you start seeing decentralized command.
By the time you would get to, let's say, land warfare and we'd thrown all this chaos at all these guys.
And they got used to making things happen.
It just seemed easy.
Yeah, they almost seem like we were cheating.
Yeah.
Do you run into, like, in the beginning of say that kind of exercise, whatever, like kind of a chaotic kind of scenario for sure.
And then what, you just sort of, what, give them guidelines or work through it.
Like, but you coach them up, like, after you little.
I might, but work through it.
Because as you work through it, you're getting better.
And we, now we would have a debrief, you know, maybe go through it.
Oh, okay.
Or 10 little mini maneuvers.
And this is, you know, the classic one is you, you call your first call and everyone knows what to do.
And then you let that start to get executed and rise is getting executed.
You call a different call.
Oh, yeah.
Then as that one's getting soon. Now you got confusion times one.
Then you call a different thing.
You get confusion times two.
Now we're all split up.
You're, you know, you're used to be your fire team being bill Fred and Joe and all of a sudden you're not with Bill Fred and Joe.
And a matter of fact, you're a junior guy and everyone in your fire team that you randomly end up as all junior guys as well.
No one knows that any step up in charge finding you look around and say, I got to make a call right now.
Hey, fire team.
So on me, we're going to bound forward.
Ready move and you, the guys listen to you.
Why? Because they're starting to adapt to the situation.
So they, so we all start off with like pretty clear guidelines super general, but pretty clear.
Every seal knows what to do when you say contact front.
Gosh, everybody knows what to do.
And then you say center peel. Everybody knows what to do.
Everyone's done that drill a thousand times.
But then while they're doing the center peel, you say contact rear.
And then you, so now they're jumbled up, but then you call another call.
And then you say contact rear.
And then you say the tactical call for we're going to flank them.
And now people start to work the flank, but they're with a different group.
And now as that flank is happening, you call contact front or contact rear again or contact left or contact right.
And now we've got to start to orient to this new situation.
And so you just keep doing all these different calls and it makes people think.
And like I said, it felt like I was cheating because by the time we would get to land warfare,
they would throw the problems at you.
The problems would not be problems because we already scrambled our brains over and over again.
And everyone knows how to look around and figure out who to grab it.
Hey, if I'm alone or I'm no one's in charge of calling to grab three guys where we're a fire team.
We're going to move.
Oh, that's so interesting. That, like, because okay, I used to put football and press the exact same thing.
So what, you know, you heard of all the lines, Scrims, you're going to call an audible, right?
Well, basically all that means is I'm changing the play because of the defense I see or whatever.
And then there's little maneuvers you can do. You can be like, I know we know this team plays this certain defense or whatever.
So we're going to line up a certain way. That means they're going to line up a certain way.
And then we're going to call the audible on the line.
Because we already know where we're going to shift to and then right when we shift, we're going when we shift they have to shift to but they're reactive.
So they got to make all these decisions right there right place. So you catch them off guard like that.
So now imagine if you did that three times in a row four times five times in a row.
And then they're going to have real problems.
Yeah.
But that's crazy how like seal team practice and training or whatever.
Like the parallels with like basically team sport because basketball do the same thing.
Same exact thing.
You know, it looks different on the field obviously is a different sport but they do the same thing.
Yeah.
And I think for for the takeaway is like to just being a leader in general.
What you're putting your putting your troops in a situation that they're not familiar with.
They learn how they learn to protocol.
They learn how to deal with those situations.
Which I wrote about in in.
In the code.
I wrote about how do you handle a situation when you don't know what to do.
What do you do?
Well, I'll just break it out right now because we're here.
Because it's a good protocol.
It's a very.
And it's a it's a protocol that you have to follow upon the most because it's the unknown.
Right.
The other protocols are straight forward.
You know, here's the problem.
Here's the solution.
This is the unknown.
What do I do?
I don't know what to do.
Something bad happened.
I don't even know where to start.
This is this this is the strategy protocol.
Every scenario cannot be addressed.
So this is the protocol for what to do when you don't know what to do.
One start by taking a step back to touch.
Take a breath.
Look around.
Make sure you assess everything that's happening.
So this is what's happening when you're in a sealed tune and there's three calls just got made.
And now you're in the unknown.
You don't know what to do.
Take a step back to touch.
Take a breath.
Look around.
Make sure you assess everything that's happening.
That's exactly what you should do.
Next thing about where your possibilities are in decisions you could make right now and what could happen.
So now you look around and say, okay, what could we do?
Could we go to that berm over there?
Could we go to that little ravine over there?
And here I say write it down because we're in an administrative situation.
But then you look at, okay, what is this success look like?
Does that get us where we want to be?
Can I get there?
Can I make that happen?
And then you work the plan.
Make a call.
And you want to make small.
Does it make a small step towards what you think is the right decision?
And that's what I read about in in leadership strategy and tactics, which is the inner of decision making process,
which is making small steps in the direction that you think is correct.
And yeah, and then you assess if that was a good call or not.
And you saw the ravine.
You started moving towards the ravine.
There's doesn't seem like you're taking any further contact from that area.
So you can keep moving there.
So you make another call that continues you pushing in that direction.
But what happens is everybody on the team starts to realize how to, how to do all those little steps.
So that new guy that when you walked out on the beach for the first time,
this guy has no idea.
And what's cool is this is an adryl that you had to run every single day.
You could run this drill like three or four times.
And then people would just be good enough where, you know, you're like, okay, we got this.
And they're, they are,
I was going to say 10 times better.
And then I was going to say 1000 times better.
But then that sounds, sounds unrealistic, but the, but the actual number is,
when you walk out on the beach for the first time as a new guy and you've never done this before,
you're zero.
You're zero.
You, when that first call, when the, no, when the first call gets made, you go,
cool, I know what to do.
When the second call gets made, you're at a zero.
You have no idea what's happening.
So when, when you've done this now for three hours one morning,
when you're done with those three hours, you're a whole new man.
You're a whole new man.
You're ability to process what's happening.
You're ability to figure things out.
You're ability to grab two or three other people, put it in your fire team and start making,
making, taking action to support whatever calls being made.
You're totally different human being in three hours.
Which is amazing.
Yeah, that is.
And by the way, the only training that, the only equipment that you need is a pair of shorts
and a stick, and you can say bang bang.
Next, placing individuals in appropriate positions,
woo, she said the basic rule of warfare that should be taught is that men of short
statures should carry spears and, and spear tip, halberd.
The tall should carry bows and crossbows, the strong should carry flags and banners that
courageous should carry bells and drums.
The weak should serve in logistics, the wild the wise should be involved in
planning.
People from the same village or district should be grouped together so they can look out for
each other.
I got a kind of a kick out of that one.
It's, if you think about, you know, once you're carrying guns, a lot of the physical
differences between humans go away.
You know, not, not that they go away completely.
I was thinking about the other guy, a text from one of my civil friends that,
you know, a guy that I grew up with and the teams, and he's just a incredible beast of
a specimen of a human being, right?
And I remember I was watching, we were doing a training operation, we were down in the
jungles of Louisiana.
And we were doing a raid, a live fire raid.
So we're using really real bullets and I was in the base element, which is the cover element.
So I was not going to move.
I was laying there and this is generally the place for the radio man, generally the
first place for the platoon commander that you're going to sit next to the platoon commander
and you usually would be looking at rear security and then you, so you put down cover
fire and then the assault element moves into position and then assaults through the target.
And you ship fire, they move through anyways, the point of all this is that they had this kind
of semi cheesy target set up for us.
There was some couple plywood building, some barrels and there was a picnic table, a random
like picnic table was in there.
And I'm watching the silhouette of this assault happen.
And I see my buddy and he's like six four and just sort of just overall general beast of
the dude and a great athlete.
And I see him, he's carrying an M60 machine gun.
This was before the modern machine gun that we have now.
So this is a big, normally it's a crew serve, it used to be a crew served weapon.
Meaning you have a person to carry the weapon and a person to carry the ammunition and sometimes
a person to carry the tripod.
We had him with bipods, we had modifications to them.
But in the seal teams, you carry those weapons by yourself.
So he's got this big giant weapon and I'm watching him and he gets to this picnic table.
And he's shooting because they're shooting, it's a live fire.
And we have now shifted fire, we've actually now ceased fire.
So we're no longer shooting, we're just watching them move through the target.
And I see him, he's carrying this giant M60 and it looks like he's carrying a BB gun.
Because he's just big and he's just laying down fire.
And he steps up on this on this picnic table as if he was stepping over an ant hill.
And I'm like, if this dude was born to be doing what he's doing right there with that pig, that pig gun.
So that's what I was thinking about when I thought of this section right here, that you know,
and you know, look, you're point man, a lot of times the point man on these small guys,
hey, the Vietnam point man, they were legendary, those be the small seals right?
Hey, that guy's going to be point man, the big dumb new guys, you're going to be a 60-garner, right?
They still kind of carry this stuff out.
And of course, it's not a written in stone and you can definitely be, there's plenty of guys that have been very small and
carried in heavy machine gun.
There's plenty of big guys that have been point man, but we do, you know, there's a little bit of it.
Because he makes sense. Yeah. He makes sense.
When you say pig, what does that mean? Does that mean the M60 or does that mean just a big gun?
That means it used to mean the M60, but now it also means the Mark 48, which is the new modern version.
It's a big belt fed machine gun to put it in clear terms for you.
The iconic Rambo weapon.
And Commander Belt fed machine gun.
I don't know about Commander No kind of weapon he was carrying in there.
He's shooting everybody from the hip, carrying the bullets, right? The belt.
Yeah, other hand.
Fet machine gun. Yeah.
Rambo, I think, kind of did it before Commander, if I'm not mistaken.
Yeah. When he came back, you shooting up the office. Oh, yeah.
So picture that weapon.
I mean, because, well, now you can picture it with sliced alone, right?
Yeah. Do you know how tall Solester Stallone is?
Oh, I'm not exactly, but I know that he's not as tall as, like, you know, you're guy.
Yeah.
Exactly.
You can picture my buddy, just laying down.
And by the way, having that thing shoulder, like shoulder like a rifle and just laying it down as he's moving.
As he's walking over an obstacle, like it's no factor.
No, and I'm totally picturing it. And yes, that's a glorious vision for sure.
Right there.
When I was young, we were watching Rambo and Commander.
See, and I was young, we were doing assaults with life fire in the swamp.
Yeah.
You were watching Rambo. Yes, and death.
Completely different for sure.
No, I think it's pretty much the same.
More or less, yes.
And my dad commented on that.
He said, because he saw, if I'm not mistaken,
Arnold Schwarzenegger in commando, because that's when we watched together.
And he had it. Yeah, shooting from the hip one hand holding the bell.
The bell is the other bell to the other hand.
And he's just laying down. He's just moving down everybody, right?
He's just moving down.
And I was like, oh, man, that's impressive.
You see that gun that he's carrying right there?
Yeah.
He's like, that gun.
It would take me, you and then he named like our neighbor.
He's like, you know, no, no, no, no, no, no.
He's like, it would take all three of us to pick that gun up.
And I was like, that's how he got me.
Arnold Schwarzenegger holding the old one hand.
So it's interesting to say that, because damn, that's what my dad said back in the day.
Yeah.
I mean, you can, you can definitely do it on old.
And so when a guy's would do that, too, but the pig, so yes, that heavy machine gun, the heavy belt
Fed machine gun is generally referred to as a pig.
Yeah.
And therefore, the guy that's carrying the pig can be no can call it the pig gunner.
And then if you remember Ryan Job was a pig gunner, and usually guys have a nickname for their pig.
And as a matter of fact, the guy that was stepping over the picnic table, he, his pig, he had two of them.
I'm not sure which one of them was called Frankenstein, but the other one was called Roadblock.
And this is, this is, you know, this is in the 90s, but there's no work on, but let's face it.
Roadblock is a legit name.
Yeah.
So Ryan Job's Ryan Job's nickname was Biggles, and his, his gun was called Pigles.
So his pigles and Biggles.
Roadblock is from GI Joe.
What, that's the name of a weapon?
No, of a guy.
Okay.
Or, no, no, no cops.
Might be cops that that don't.
I don't know.
I just know that my buddy had a, had a, had a them 60 that was called Roadblock.
That's, yeah, that's one of the most legit names of it.
My life straight up.
Yeah.
I'll tell you what.
So, so every different military has their different schools, right?
Your different skill sets, sniper, radio man, you know, medic, all, they're, they're all, they're all little schools.
And we used to share schools.
We know sometimes our radio man go to the, go to the special forces, communication school,
we've, for a long time with special forces, medic school.
So we share some of those schools, sniper school, there's a Marine course map.
There's all different schools. We, the seals run really, really good schools.
Because you get guys that are way, way, way into it, way into it, way into whatever their little thing is.
But we would run that the machine gunners would go through a course.
While we would go through land warfare, and it was like this, this, the 60 gunners course,
or the pig gunners course.
But man, they would get some of the instructors, and they would, everyone was just so into it that,
and I, I would, the other guys, like I when I was a radio man or one, I was an officer,
we would get, we'd, we'd, we'd, we'd, we'd, we'd, we'd, we'd, we'd do some a couple runs.
Because you got to, but these guys would be out there for, you know, three days,
just burned in through ammunition and learning to do everything in slap feed and push feed and combat feed.
And, you know, it just, the guys would get so good.
And you'd see, there's another, another friend of mine I had.
I was, it was almost the exact same situation.
I think I was behind him, we, I was walking on him, so we were assaulting through a target.
And he was out ahead of me, so I wasn't, I was like, as the radio men, so I wasn't,
as a radio man, you're, you're doing time on target.
You get like the nerve rolls, you know the stereotypical, so the stereotypical,
60-gonna, he's like a big jacked guy, right?
Even in every movie, right?
It's, it's the way it is.
The stereotypical radio man, what does he look like?
Yeah, a little nerdy.
He's a nerdy guy, he's got glasses on, he's just keep cleaning him in the fields.
And, and so, like, I was, I was not, I mean, I wasn't small,
but that's the job that I had was that nerdy job.
So when you're assaulting a target, your job would be to keep time on target.
So you'd call out, you know, one minute.
And, and so you're, while the assault's going down,
sometimes I would be tracking out kind of, I would be a little bit more heads up,
I'd be a little bit more attached, right?
I got three machine guns out of front of me, plus all the other guys with the P shooters,
and they're all laid it down, and I might take a step back to be, okay,
I'm making comms, I'm making sure we're doing good, whatever.
But I was watching one of my other buddies.
And I just, like, he was, so there's a, there's a feed tray.
There's a bunch of different ways that you can reload your M60.
And I just remember him.
He, in the most smooth fashion that you could imagine.
The particular, he was, he was slap feeding it, so he opens up the feed tray.
And he opens up the feed tray, and he whips his hand.
He whips his hand, and what he does when he whips his hand is he hits the links.
So, you know those bullets in the belt, they're held together by links.
And that, when you fire that last round, sometimes that link will sit there.
It won't make it out of the gun, because it just fired.
And so that link will sit there, right in that spot.
Yeah.
So he opens up the feed tray, whips his hand, and he hits that,
and that link comes up, he opens it up, link.
And while he's whipping it, he's like prepping, he whips it.
He whips it, he switches hand, he grabs out his,
or no, he whips it, he grabs the belt, puts the next belt in there.
Boom, slaps the feed cover home, lip in he starts, and I was like, man.
So, what I'm saying is when you got people that are into what they're doing,
they're going to be good.
They're going to be good.
You want it, that's why if you, we should have videoed those two guys.
Do in those two moments, if I could capture those two moments,
and just propagate those two moments to the world.
People will be a lot less apt to want to mess with America.
Because you think about what kind of humans are doing this.
What kind of human is figured out how to open the feed tray cover,
slap that link out, reach down, like, what kind of human is doing that?
And it's made that into a beautiful thing.
That's what you're dealing with.
Not dealing with normal people.
We're going distance.
It's like, you know, those guys who, you know, they're into smoking.
You know, so they, and I don't mean like they're just smoke-living,
saying they're into smoking, you know, so when they like this cigarette,
they got the old school classic gold-plated light,
and they do the little mini micro performance before they like this cigarette,
the thing, you know, flip it like it's a butterfly knife or something like that.
Kind of like that.
But, yeah, as far as a war fighter goes, you see.
Yeah, and then you just break down.
And when I start thinking about all the little details that guys would do,
every little piece of gear, their honing at their pep, their prepping at everything is taped,
everything is quiet, everything is just,
and you'd get to see these, I'll tell you what, I was out on patrol,
like towards the end of the battle of the body.
So, you know, we're like, I don't know, maybe a few weeks or whatever from going home.
And I run to some corner and I'm holding the corner as, you know,
whatever, we're just on patrol, and I'm watching as the guys are moving,
and I'm like, good, good.
Same thing, I'm thinking, if I was an insurgent,
I would, there's no way I would take a shot at these guys right now.
It looks like a, looks like just a machine, a machine, a machine that's alive,
like a cyborg, a cybernetic organism that's conducting operations with one thought process.
Yeah, that cannot be bargained with and cannot be reasoned with.
Oh, yeah, does it feel pity or remorse or fear?
Yeah, absolutely will not stop.
Never, and that's what you are, like that's from a movie, but that's real.
Yeah.
Think about that.
That's a movie.
Somebody wrote that for a movie to make that as cool as possible,
but that's a real thing.
There's really, really people like that.
I know them.
And there's groups like that.
And look, the only thing is you can say, they can't be killed or whatever,
as did you say that, or they can't be stopped?
Can't be bargained with, can't be bargained with, or reason with cool.
Yep, we're there.
Yeah.
So it's just a good comforting feeling to know that there's guys out there like that.
They're like that.
Yeah, I know JP to know.
I know him for a while.
For sure.
He's always come off as like that.
Yeah.
Good times.
Well, a little fun fact.
Michael Bean is the guy who played Kyle Reese, who is the character who said that whole thing to
Sarah Connor in Terminator 1.
And we might call this layers.
We might call it coincidence.
We might call it parallels.
But his most played role is a Navy seal.
Interesting.
Yeah.
Be a Bist, the rock.
There are others too.
Anyway.
Next section maintenance of horses.
This is an interesting one.
I'm trying to remember why I highlighted that I should read the must be some reason.
Lord, we asked, how do we take care of our horses?
Woo-chee replied, the stable should be clean and comfortable.
That's why because it applies to everything.
The stable should be clean and comfortable.
The horses should be fed with appropriate grass and water.
Feeding should be until neither too hungry or too full.
Oh, yeah.
So this is like a decademy here.
Not too hungry.
Discipline, clean.
Right.
Not too hungry.
And then the decademy is continue in winter.
They should have warm tables in the summer.
Cool tables.
Little decademy there.
They're made and here should be kept trimmed.
The hooves are properly cared for.
Yes.
See these guys, these are like pig gunders.
But with horses, right?
They should be trained to be familiar with all sights and sounds.
So that they aren't easily startled.
Practicing their gallop and pursuit exercise.
Constraint and vat and halting.
The bond between the horse and men should be so strong.
Before the horses can be employed, imagine the bond between a pig gunner and his weapon.
Right?
It's like a real thing.
The equipment such as saddles, bridles, bits and reins must be strong and durable.
Normally these horses are injured either towards the end of war or at the start.
Similarly, they are either injured by hunger or overfeeding.
That's the same thing that Dave Burke said about crashes.
Playing crashes.
They usually happen in the first 20% of a pilot's career or the last 20%.
Management of troops, Wu Qi said, only people who have military capabilities and civility
can be commander of an army.
He must be one who is strict and flexible as well.
I thought I made up the dichotomy of leadership.
I didn't.
In general, when people appraised general ship they usually focus on courage.
However, courage is one of many required characteristics of a general being only courageous.
One would rash you rushing to battle without any considerations for gain and loss.
What do you need to be balanced?
Such action is not acceptable.
Now, the affairs to which the general must manage are five.
First is control.
Second is preparation.
Third is commitment.
Fourth is caution.
Fifth is regulation.
Control is governing the masses just as one controls a few.
Preparation is during the journey to the battleground.
Always be prepared for enemy ambush.
Commitment means entering combat without any concerns for one's life.
Caution means that even after conquering one remains the same control and attitude as if just entering a battle.
Hmm.
Even after you win you maintain control and you maintain the same attitude as if you just entered the battle.
Regulation means laws and orders are to be kept to a minimum and not abrasive.
You know what I've been saying lately?
Lead with the minimum force required.
Hmm.
Which is exactly what this says right here.
Or just kept to a minimum, not abrasive.
To accept command without declining.
So when you get put in charge, you do it.
Destroy the enemy only afterward.
Destroy the enemy and only afterwards speak about returning.
Is the proper form of behavior for general.
You look, you don't talk about going home.
You even mention going home until you win.
When the army goes forth, his only thought is to die with glory rather than live with shame.
Hmm.
Lead you.
Woochi said, oh sorry, this is for areas to note and characteristics of good generals.
What?
Over 2000 years old.
Woochi said in general, there are four vital points to note for warfare and they are morale.
Terrain, affairs and strength.
The control and management of armies movement lies in the hand of one general.
That is the vital point for morale.
When the road is narrow and perilous at the vital point of the mountain route.
Deploying 10 men, a general can stop an army of thousands.
That is a vital point of terrain.
Making full use of spies, using light cavalry to harass the enemy,
so in discord between the ruler and officials and higher ranks and lower ranks,
approaching each other is the vital point of affairs.
When chariots and strong have strong axles and secure pins, the boats have been suited with runners and ors,
that officers are thoroughly familiar with the formations and the horses have trained in pursuits and maneuvers,
such as the vital point of strength.
One who knows these four is qualified to be a general.
Moreover, his reputation, virtues, benevolence and courage must be respected by his
abordinates and calm the masses.
It is interesting that you think of these guys back in the day of these rulers being
really ruling with an iron fist and it is the caste system and you are just dominating.
And he talks about benevolence all the time and righteousness.
And how that's he's saying, if you've got a group that loves their leader,
don't even attack him.
Furthermore, he must be able to scare his enemy with his reputation and decisiveness.
When he issues orders no one dare to bit disobey him whenever he may be,
wherever he may be, rebels will not dare to oppose him gaining such a person.
The state will grow strong, losing him, the state will perish.
That's what we call a good general.
Characteristics and importance of good communications.
Will she set?
Now the different troms, goans and bells are means to all the ear.
Fags, banners and penance are meant to all the eye.
Prohibitions, orders, punishments and fines are meant to all the mind.
Since the air is awestruck by sounds, they must be loud and clear.
Since the eye is struck by colors, the colors must be discriminating and bright.
Since the mind is awestruck by penalties, it has to be strict and impartial.
If these three are not established, even though you may have the support of the state,
you will invariably be defeated by the enemy.
Thus it is said that wherever the general's banners are, the whole troops will go
and wherever the general points to every and will charge for without concern for their own lives.
As much as we talk about communication, it's under the law of combat simple, simple, clear, concise communication.
If you're not doing that, if you're not giving clear, concise orders, things are going to fall apart.
Wooch, knowing the enemy general, knowing the enemy general, wooch, he said, in general, one essential of wars to know who the enemy general is and evaluate his talent.
In a corner of the situation, you schemes and achieves, you schemes to achieve results without much later, labor,
a commanding general who is stupid and trusting can be deceived and entrapped.
When who's greedy and insensitive to honor, can be given gifts and bribed, one who changes mind easily and lacks real plans,
plot to labor and tire him out.
That's a good one.
You got some of that tries, all these different things, go ahead and keep trying, all those different things.
Nice little breakdown, he just gives about what kind of personality you're doing with and then how you attack that personality.
It's so good.
If the upper ranks are wealthy and arrogant while the lower ranks are poor and resentful, so discord amongst them.
If they're advancing and withdrawing are often marked by doubt and the troops have no wonder of lion, they can be frightened off.
They can be frightened and running off.
If the officers despise their commanding general and have strong intent to return home,
block off the easy roads leaving the treasurer's ones open and they can be attacked and captured. If the terrain over which they advance is easy, but the retreat route is difficult,
wait for them to come forward.
Testing the enemy general.
Lord Wu asked,
If two armies are confronting each other and I do not know their general,
if I would like to know more about them what methods can I employ, Wu Qi replied, gather some lower ranks,
men who are courageous and have them lead some light shock troops to test them.
When the enemy responds to attack, they the shock troops should run off and he basically goes through how to do little probe to find that.
What kind of reaction you think of an organized defense or not, and you can judge from there, next one chaos and communications.
Lord Wu asked, if the chariots are sturdy, the horses are well bred, the generals are courageous and the soldiers are strong,
but when you suddenly encounter the enemy and the troops are thrown into chaos and formations are broken, what can be done?
So this is exactly what I talked about doing these sand rattle battle jittles on the beach.
Wu Qi replied, in general, it is a rule of battle that during daylight, flags, banners and pettons to relate orders while at night,
longs, drums, horns and whistles can be used instead when the flags sing the left, they move left when the flags are right,
they move right when the drum is beaten, they advance when the gongs sound they retreat at the first sound of the horn,
they should advance at the second sound of the horn, they should gather if anyone disobeyed the order, they should be executed.
This is where I started to say, okay, you know, we talked about the level of lents and I was on board, we talked about taking care of your people and I was on board.
People disobey your order, execution might not be the best thing to do, only in this way the army would submit to your awesomeness.
And the officers and soldiers will not dare disobey orders and combat, no enemy will be stronger than you, no one will any defenses remain impregnable to your attack.
When the, when outnumbered by the enemy, Lord Wu asked, what if our troops are outnumbered?
Wu Qi replied, avoiding gauging them on flat terrain instead of attacking their recorders,
less to disobeyed for one to attack ten nothing is better than narrow passage.
Pretend to attack a hundred nothing is better than deep revient, these are pretty straightforward.
How do attack a strong enemy?
Lord Wu asked if their forces are numerous well trained and courageous behind them are dangerous high grounds on the right or mountains on the left or river.
They are well fortified and have crossbows and defending position.
When they withdraw, they are steadiest mountains when they attack their like torrential rain as their food stocks are plentiful.
It will difficult to defend against them for very long what should be done.
This is funny.
He's just asking these totally insane situations, right?
But don't worry, have no fear because Wu Qi replied, a very good question.
Such enemy cannot be overcome by force alone, but by the wisdom of sage.
If Ken prepared 1000 chariots and 10,000 cavalry and support them with foot soldiers, divide them into five groups, each one traversing a different route.
Now the five groups will move out in different directions simultaneously.
The enemy will certainly be confused and will not know what we are up to.
So he basically goes through how to attack from five different directions at the same time.
And then what he says is, he basically want to isolate some of the groups, which is a smart move.
He's on to a whole section of when surrounded by the enemy, when caught non-favorable terrain, caught in a valley, fighting marine battles, wet and dry weather.
Also known as moist, this dry weather, fighting plunders after caught.
This is a good one.
After conquering cities, Wu Qi said, in general, there is a principle to follow when attacking the enemies city.
That is, after conquering the city, enter their public building, control and use the former bureaucrats to take over their supplies.
Relay orders that troops are not supposed to cut down trees, destroy houses, take the grain, slaughter animals, or burn people supplies.
This will show the populace that you do not have any vicious intentions, accepting those that accept those that surrender and settle them.
This is very good advice, especially that bureaucratic idea.
We're going to take over and try and maintain their society.
We're not going to rip it apart.
It's going to be easier to control.
It's going to be more beneficial to you and them.
It's a positive thing.
This is going back to the Iraq War and the disbanding of Saddam's military, which is pretty much now considered that that was a bad, bad move.
We talk about it on.
We talk about it on the other podcast.
The newly named podcast, the podcast, formerly known as the thread, which is now known as the juggle unravelling podcast, which will be up soon.
And just to go, look, we don't have to take this from a war scenario.
When you acquire a business, your business buys their business.
What do you do?
Say, we're here, get on board, fire all their leadership, and then actually utilize their leadership.
Take some of their culture, incorporate them into the game.
You know what makes people not do what I just said, because there you go.
They're like, you know what echo?
We just bought your company, your fired, or even like, you know, you can be, you can be work as my, you know, whatever.
I'm going to take your authority away from you.
Now, everybody's looking at you that should be working hard, and they're going to outman that treat our boss bad.
Yeah, it's true.
You know, good examples of that is the movie invasion of the body snatchers.
So this old school movie, by the way, my dad used to be super into it, but I noticed the aliens that come down and they take over your body.
Right.
Now, there's this movie called invasion of the body snatchers.
So they come down and they take over your body, but you look still, look like you.
You kind of even act like you, but you have an alien agenda.
See, same same exact same thing.
So as opposed to like, because the alien came invaded your body, took over your body, your whole thing.
But they didn't like ruin it, they kept your whole industry.
Yeah, because for us, that that philosophy goes as opposed to like men in black, everyone's men in black that one.
Yeah, but I can't really remember.
So there's this cockroach alien that came in, like took over this farmer guy's body and just jammed it up.
So when this guy, the farmer, the alien, the cockroach alien was walking down the street as the farmer, like his body was so jammed up his skins all falling down.
Whatever everyone was like, ooh, like he couldn't function in society, same same. So this agenda was, it was way harder to execute, same same ended up losing in the end two, by the way.
Okay.
Yeah.
Coincidence, nope.
No.
They kind of stole that plot line from Wuchi.
Yeah, obviously.
Alright, Lord Wu asked, is making punishment severe and rewards clear adequate for victory?
Wuchi replied, as to these matters of severity and clarity, I do not have all the answers, even so they cannot be totally relied on.
When you issue orders and the people willingly follow them, when you raised the army and mobilized the masses, the people take pleasure in going to battle.
When engaging the enemy, the people take on pleasure in fighting to the death, then these three are what the ruler of men can do.
Those are big asks.
Lord Wu inquired further.
How does one attain such results?
Right?
So this is a big ask that you're asking for how do you get there?
Wuchi replied, you should identify man of accomplishment and honor them with a grand feast, also invite those that have not accomplished anything.
This would stimulate them.
They're upon Lord Wu had sitting on a head sitting mats set out in the ancestral temple hall arranged in three tiers and held a feast for officers and chief officials.
Those distinguished by great achievements sat in the first tier and were feasting in the finest food and call the re-those who ranked in the next accomplishment sat in the middle tier and dined with fine food and less lavish vessels.
Those who had not accomplished anything.
Noteworthy, sat in the last tier feasting fine food in ordinary utensils when the feast was over and they came out Lord Wu also honored the parents and families of the meritorious outside the temple gate again according to their accomplishments.
He annually sent emissaries to call on the families of those who had died in service for the country but stowing aid on their parents.
So doing he showed that they would not be forgotten.
Once again take care of your people and also like how he set up that little tiered structure of you want to move into the next tier.
Gotta go make some stuff happen.
And also interesting to that third tier that is actually sounds still pretty solid, you know, where it's like,
I'm gonna take a dive in on the finest food just in some ordinary cut, you know, kind of thing but then you compare to like the lavish top tier. We all want to get there.
Check this is the last section from Wuji. I read a bunch of a didn't read the whole thing. You can go download it yourself for the details. This is the last section.
And this tells a little story and now we get to this point the day before the battle Wuji spoke to the troops.
All aids and officers must confront and capture enemies chariots cavalry in infantry. If the chariots do not make prisoners of the enemies chariots, the cavalry do not make prisoners of the enemies cavalry,
the infantry do not make prisoners of the enemies infantry, then even if we forge an overwhelming victory, no one will be accredited with achievements.
That was his message to the troops on the day of battle, although his orders were not onerous. Meaning he'd give these massive words. He just said that right there basically on that day.
His awesomeness shook the world.
That is the last line of the Wuji written by Wuji on that day of battle. His awesomeness shook the world.
And I'm going to say that that's probably a pretty positive outcome.
And you know, look, these principles, we read them. We have some level of understanding of them. We see the same advice coming from different people over a spread of thousands of years.
We keep hearing the same type of advice over and over again. Well, we didn't use put that advice to work, right? Put these principles to work.
Just for yourself, but for your family, but for your people, but for your team, but for your employees, your bosses, your community and the world.
And then what you do is you go out and you shake the world with awesomeness.
Echo Charles. Yes, sir. Speaking of shaking the world with awesomeness.
Yes, how can you help us do that? How can you help us shake the world with awesomeness?
Well, you cannot shake the world with awesomeness if you are not yourself providing awesomeness.
If you're incapable of providing awesomeness, how can you shake anything with that awesomeness?
Yeah, you're not shaking anything with pure lack of awesomeness yourself. You're going to have a hard time.
What's interesting is even back then they say the word awesome.
Remember this is the translation.
Okay. All right. That's fair enough.
So awesome is so my friend Anthony. He was actually on my house our first episode of the podcast when you came up with it.
Oh, yeah. He was on my house.
Anyway, he used to always say the word awesome.
Just inappropriate times in my opinion. Right. So that kind of turned me off to the word awesome.
He'd say, yeah, I met this girl. She was just so awesome and it's like, all right. You know,
I don't know how like a girl. She this girl must be really something if you're in awe of this girl.
Seems same because that's really what awesome is. Right. It's awe.
So whatever. Anyway, so he'd always use it. So it really turned me off.
So I tease him about it. So anytime he's around, I'd be over using the word awesome.
Then after a while, I just started using it normally. You know, you know, how that happens, right?
I think he talked about this before. Where you start using the word just as a joke.
And then it slowly creeps into your normal vocabulary. That's what awesome is.
So I'm rolling with it. Okay.
So apparently, woo cheese won't roll with it as well.
Yeah. Very nice.
I'm really going to roll with it. So all right. Well, we got to keep ourselves in the game. You know, this game.
You cannot be awesome and shake any world or anything with awesomeness if you're not in the game to begin with.
If you're not on the path, this might be an end.
What's the level of arrogance when you close out your book by saying you shook the world with awesomeness?
Kind of detracts with a message a little bit.
Oh, well.
The humility meter is not getting very high when you're saying, hey, you know what I'm going to do.
No factor. Just no big deal on both of them over here shaking the world with awesomeness.
Yeah.
If I agree, but I've never even heard a person make a statement that is, that might be the strongest possible.
What what what what's stronger than that.
Like what's a stronger way of saying this person made a mark on the world, right?
Yeah.
Shake the world with awesomeness.
Straight up, shook it.
Yeah.
Oh, it's legit.
It does sound like a Kanye West, maybe statement or something like this.
Okay.
That's something he would say. I'm saying.
Oh, I will take your word for it.
Anyway, be on the path.
So I'm saying now what you're going to do is, okay.
The path is like, it's full of, and I'm kind of quote you on this one.
It's full of obstacles and traps.
The path is true.
So those obstacles challenges or whatever.
We've got something for you.
Got some supplements.
This is for your physical and mental ability to stay on the,
Yeah, to stay on the path in the game, etc.
So, Joaquil, feel kind of lying for you for any pretty much any element,
pretty much generally speaking it covers at least a little bit of any element that may be bestowed.
Basically, you're just going up.
You're just carrying the theme forward.
Because we are shaking the world with awesomeness. Now we're just any element.
I'm just, you know, I'm just more good.
You got the Joaquil fuel.
Whatever's wrong with you, we got you.
If this will help.
Any, if this will help.
This will help.
So it's just going to depend on what you mean by help.
Hey, look, we just, you know, we just,
You don't need to say anything else.
You just said it.
You say, hey, look, any element that you have.
Any problem you got.
Joaquil fuel, you're good.
That's it.
That's end of advertisement.
Every end of talking.
We're good.
Any element.
Let me, I'm so, I mean, because some of these elements, we simply don't have you.
Seems like if you don't need extra, just an example.
If you don't need extra point protein in the form of a dessert.
Some people, they don't need that.
Who doesn't need that?
Well, a lot of people don't need it, but of course we'll.
Of course we'll want that.
I mean, as far as protein goes,
How can it get in it?
Well, then again, steak, seems same.
Steak is not in the form of a dessert.
But sort of the same desire.
Yeah.
Anyway, all right, well, let me start at the beginning.
Okay, join more for it.
That's for your joints.
Yes.
If and when, or let's just say, if they start to filter.
Are you going to narrow down the, you started, you're going to narrow down.
Are you attracting your statement that an 88 went?
This is going to be cure by Choco fuel.
No.
Well, technically, I didn't make that statement.
So, I said this will help.
Oh, I don't know if it seems like.
Okay.
I miss radio.
Here's the thing.
I totally cheated on that statement because look, if you break your arm,
and I give you a leg massage, that'll help.
It won't help your arm specifically, but, you know, legs are loose and good to go.
So there will be benefits.
And even for truly any ailment.
So you're actually speaking, factually.
In one way or another.
Yeah.
I think that's right.
So anyway, don't worry for our super-crui oil.
And antioxidants in there.
By the way, it's called Zanthium.
It's called, it's called ailment.
Crusher.
What?
Also, that supplement discipline.
If you want some supplemental discipline, bone,
got you disciplined, supplement.
In cans, powder form, bone, whatever you like.
Did you say Criola?
I did super-crui.
Super.
Yeah.
Because really when it boils down to it,
not being on super-crui oil and not being on joint warfare,
is not a good idea.
No.
You talk about the four something of light, right?
Yeah.
Those are the lightest things.
But you can't suppose of light.
You gotta keep it light, Paul.
You have to.
In my past, fresh after listening to this, I think so.
That's what the super-crui oil, that's what the joint warfare,
that's the discipline too.
By the way, so it's all part of the whole circle of...
I must say, I drink the powdered form of discipline,
go like basically all day long.
Basically we're talking about all day long.
You want to, you got some, you want to prevent some ailments.
Yeah.
Even ailment prevention is what we're talking about.
Vitamin D3.
Get some of that.
Get some cold war.
And you can deny these threatening enemy beasts ailments.
Oh yeah.
Better out there.
Just get rid of them before they even show up.
Oh yeah, immune systems.
This is it.
Like somebody walks up to your immune system.
Some, some enemy walks up to your immune system.
They see the D3 and they see the cold war.
There's sort of like, hey, that's not, they're not attacking.
Yep.
They're right in that category of don't attack.
You're correct, yeah.
The ancient Wucci said,
if you see a body filled with D3.
And a cold war, do not attack.
It's a losing battle.
Yes.
Got the RGD cans.
You want to get some, you want to get some jockel pommur.
You do want to get some jockel pommur.
This stuff is ridiculously good.
The, the, the stuff is good.
It's good for you, which is crazy.
Yeah.
It's crazy.
Did you see Brian little field,
KB little video on that on the whole deal?
Yeah.
What, what makes it different?
And I thought it was going to be like,
What the difference is in the spirit or something.
You know, something kind of esoteric.
And you can't really, like, put your finger,
but he ran it.
He went down the line like all this stuff.
You know, like, okay, proprietary about the,
what the, what the, what the, what the, what the, what is it?
Yeah, he's talking about the, the turn proprietary blend,
which is a way of.
Masking.
What you actually have in there and the quantities
that you have in there, which means that you can sell people things
that for a lot more.
But, even though you didn't put very much of them in there.
them in there. Yeah, yeah, which is sketch. Yeah, it's interesting. And then when he goes down the line,
you know, of all the stuff that's in there, it's all transparent. Like, you know, all the ingredients are like on there and stuff.
And you kind of, man, this is like, this, that does, that is different than like an energy.
All true. You know, which man, I'm, I like the energy drink. What about man when you, when you
read this, you're like, bro, how can I even drink an energy drink now? You won't. But here's the thing.
We're making something else. We're making a ginger rail. Do you like ginger?
Yeah, so do. Okay. Well, there's going to be caffeine free ginger rail coming.
Well, I don't think we have a name for you. We're kind of tracking all that.
I was unaware that King Drillhead caffeine? Well, no, this one won't. It can or cannot. I mean,
you can have caffeine free coffee. You can have caffeine free tea. So we're making ginger
rail without caffeine. The reason is the, this is what I was going to say this. The reason I said that is because
I told, I told be little. I was like, listen, this stuff tastes freaking delicious. And I want to drink it all day.
Oh, yeah. And I don't want to OD on caffeine. There's 95 milligrams of caffeine in every can of go. So,
you know, you have a can of go. Maybe have to a day. The maximum you're supposed to do recommended is like
400 milligrams of caffeine a day. That's going to turn me into a psychopath. Yeah, you know, I don't need that.
But here's the problem. Love the taste. So, well, it's a little discipline task because you got to
draw the line. But also the cool thing is when you're, when it's your company,
you know what, I want something without caffeine. Yeah. And so we're going to make that. I already
had, I told I just probably about the six or seventh iteration of and we're still keeping in all the
positive stuff, all the good, the tropics, all the healthy things that are in there. It's all still
going to be in there. It's just not going to have caffeine. Gotcha. Okay. Yeah. I'm misinterpreted it like as
if to say normal ginger rail has caffeine. Yeah. But no, you're right. Like there's caffeine in the
jockel pombur or whatever. There's a little element of caffeine in there or a legitimate element.
Um, but this is not going to have to do that way. I can drink this stuff all day long. Get the
other benefits for the product. One of those benefits being taste. Yeah.
Because I know someone that when they go out for dinner, they get Coca-Cola's. Yes, sir. Which are
not. No, sir, they're not. You know, hey, it's the freedom part. Yeah. And last, yeah, we're going to taste
uh, like I mentioned before, a mulk and warrior kid milk by the way. So protein in the form of a dessert tastes good.
No, tastes great. No, these were great. That offense. But I can do it. And you can get some jockel
white tea in the cans in the rub. 8,000 pound dead left. Do you know what's his no big deal? I
know that doesn't sound like we don't get to guarantee one or something. And you can get all these things
at origin main.com. You can get them at the vitamin shop as well in your local neighborhood.
There you go. Also, at origin main is, you just to stop when we start due to, when we're in
due to, we want to get a new key. We want to get a key or a rash cart to whatever. Or do you mean
come, they got that too. All made in America. Also since you can't, unfortunately, just wear a key
whatever you go. Unfortunately. I mean, you can technically, but it's not recommended. Yeah.
Yeah. You can also get other things there like jeans, t-shirts, boots, yes boots. You can get
boots and all everything that we just talked about, everything without compromise made in America,
American hands up there getting after it. So I'm kind of thinking of the boots, right?
And some other stuff like that. But the boots will just say the boots. So you know how woo,
z, no, woo, chee. Yeah, which is talking about like, hey, you spent a lot of time making that thing.
Beautiful. But not function. I'm still trying to figure out the use for it, right? But these boots are
kind of like whoever made them. And them was kind of doing both. Same same. Like when they had the
goal for boots, they were like going functional with beauty, like handed hand almost kind of thing.
As far as works of art goes, down one's like, I'm not that much in fashion, like you were,
but it seems like that'd be like some top tier artistic. There's a good balance between
fashion and function between myself and a guy by the name of Pete Roberts. Let's face it.
Pretty. Well, let's face it on in a, in a vacuum environment with just Pete Roberts in there.
You all you have to do is look at rash guards from origin, right? You can look at those and you can see
where it's going to end up. When you inject a little jacco in there, all of a sudden things start,
you know, we start going a little bit more towards the form. Yeah. I can go a little bit more towards
the form thing. Pete can get wild. Hey man. Bro, I got you know, likes the way things look more
than me. Yes, or more than me. Quite a bit more than me. Yes, sir. But what's cool is you get that
balance like the jeans, man. Let's face it. There's some things about the jeans that are a little
bit, they're functional like the pockets are slanted in the back right? It's easier to get. It's like
these little things. They're legit and it just so happens. Let's face it. They look super little.
Bro, I went to Oregon just got back as you know and on the plane, this is saying a lot. No,
I'm not trying to like look dope because the paparazzi is going to be at the airport waiting
for me when I ride. That's not my situation. You know, so I wear what's going to work in the airport
scenario environment, origin jeans all day to end from by the way. So you if the paparazzi was
waiting for you you'd wear something different. No. My concern with just lie elsewhere seems
same. I might even wear, I might even wear like you know those gold or diamond rimmed sunglasses.
No, I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm just saying it's a different
pursuit is what I'm saying nonetheless those are the facts. Also, Jocco is a store called Jocco store.
This is where you can get other stuff if you want to represent on this path. This is a path
that we're all on the path of the game. Whatever you want to call it the way, the way, the woo,
the woo, right? Woo, right is way. Again, I tried to find out if Woozi meant anything and the
I couldn't find that a meant anything that I could comprehend other than room and I know that
this book is not called room. Yeah, but I think I'd woo if I'm not mistaken is the way.
Cool. I think I could be wrong. But I think woo by itself is Marshall as in Marshall,
art as in Wu Tang clan. Oh, okay. It's clear to me now. The last
chocolate store is called Jocco store. Like I said, and if you want shirts that say discipline
equals freedom, definitely. I'm going to YouTube comment that says echo in quotes like your
middle name nonetheless. Charles. Yes, I have seen that. Okay. Hey, man, I can I deny it. You know,
I guess I could technically, but you know, it would be less accurate than maybe if I didn't
deny it. We'll say that. Okay. Well, last like I said, back to discipline, you could treat them shirts
and hoodies and rash guards and hats. Some women stuff on there anyway if you want to represent
with merch as it were. I don't like to say the word merch that much, but if you like a pair
you want to represent a soccer store dot com. Subscribe to this podcast if you want to
echo seems to think that's a big concern in the morning.
It's far as being concerned. So hey, not only is there this podcast, we also have the the
name, the podcast form we known as the thread, which is now known as the Jocco unraveling podcast.
That's we actually recorded a couple more with Darrell yesterday. It'll be back. It'll be live.
We'll put them, we're going to put them on this feed and then eventually we'll move
off to another feed so we don't confuse people. Grounded podcasts, we haven't done one of those in a
while. That's probably negligent. Same with Warrior Kid podcast, but they are there. We will work on more.
Also speaking of Warrior Kids, we got that. We got that Warrior Kids. So I wish Oak for that
stock com or you can get it on the Jocco store. And this is made by a Warrior Kid who's putting his
effort in life to create something so that people in the world can stay clean.
We have a YouTube channel where echo Charles makes videos. This will be on there. This whole scenario
will be on there. You can see what I look like. You can see what echo looks like.
I think echo then also makes these videos where in a three minute video, by the way, he'll put
900 explosions. But in a three hour video, he'll put none. That caught him in then. People are starting to wonder.
I think that certain things. Why don't you do this? Why don't you start with, like today,
you've talked about 14 different 80s movies. Why don't you put a little clip in there or put a little
something make a terminator robot or something, right? Just put it in there. People will go,
ah, cool. I don't think they will. Because I think explosions terminator robots, etc,
are do have levels of appropriateness given. Give in. Thank you, Evan. Give in from
no limit to the appropriateness of explosions and for freaking. Give in what kind of video it is.
So, you know, we're gonna, I'm gonna, I'm gonna air on the side of a broken you at least try to put one
effect into a three hour podcast video. You know what the jury's still not on that one. Whether that's a good decision.
But we're gonna, I'm gonna keep checking in and you know, maybe maybe not. But, you know,
either way we're gonna, we're gonna move forward. Nonetheless, yes, YouTube channel. It is there.
A lot of people will a lot of us. We'll play the podcast straight up. Just play it on our TV or
smart TV. You know, that's a thing now. And, you know, let's just play it. It's kind of like
boom, the conversation going around, going on in the room with you. You seem to say,
it does create that environment. It's what I'm saying. The last tune into that one on the YouTube.
That's the way to do it. Boom. Other stuff on the some excerpts on there too. If you don't necessarily
want to listen to the whole thing, all at once or whatever, you know, could you act this a little
or whatever. But no, some people will just catch the like the YouTube excerpts and be like,
oh, shoot, let me just let this one play. It's a good topic. Spirit, but it's just the one topics.
I'm saying that's good too. Very beneficial. Um, yeah, boom. There you go. Also psychological warfare.
If you don't know what that is, it's an album with tracks, jocco tracks, jocco telling you,
helping you. Really helping you. What, you don't want help. You don't need help. That's what you're saying.
No, that's not what you're saying. Sometimes we don't need a little bit of help. Psychological
warfare will help you through those moments of weakness, big weakness, small weakness, whatever.
You will get help through it. 100%. 100%. I just saw you riff. I like your band. Good job.
You didn't repeat this, you know, you stepped off your, your standard. Okay. I don't want,
I can't say script because it's not a script because you're not reading it. It's just the same
thing that you, you know, when I had a band you from saying that. Why would go? Right. Cool.
Yeah. Also got flipside canvas.com. Dakota Myers company and he makes visual representations to
keep you on the path. I got a bunch of books. The code. Leadership strategy and tactics.
Way the warrior could one, two and three. Mike in the dragon's discipline equals freedom field manual.
Extreme ownership of the negatomy leadership. If you like what we talk about here, we wrote
them down. We wrote this information down for every level of child, of adult, of human. You can
start to get on the right path. Also, a leadership consultant company. It's called echelon front.
If you need help with leadership inside your organization, go to echelon front.com. We have EF Online,
which is where I've been investing a ton of time. Going online, interacting, we do it right now. We're
doing three times a week. I'm there. You want to ask me a question? And you sent me a Twitter
thing three months ago and I didn't respond because there was 19 million of them or you sent me
a Facebook message and I didn't respond. Look, I apologize. It's not possible for me to look at them all.
If you want to talk to me, go to eF Online.com. Just go to eF Online.com. You will be
I will be in your living room with you on Zoom. The Zoom call. I will be in your living room. You'll
be talking to me. We'll be having a conversation. That's what's happening. Go to eF Online.com. There's
a bunch of other information on there. There's a bunch of other, we got courses to go through.
We've got the question to the day. We've got leadership primers. Get all kinds of stuff. So go check
it out. EF Online.com. We really ramped that up and we got into the COVID scenario.
So if you want to come to the master, which is our leadership event, the next one is going to
be in Arizona, September 16th and 17th, then Dallas, Texas on December 3rd and 4th,
go to extremownership.com. But details look. It's probably going to be a social
distance situation, which means we're going to have less tickets to sell, which means it's going
to sell out faster. So extremownership.com. If you want to come EF Overwatch, if you are a
military individual that is moving into the civilian sector, or if you're a civilian company that
needs people that understand the principles we talk about here, go to eF Overwatch.com, fill out
the appropriate information, and we will move you in the right direction, both of you. America's
mighty warriors.org. This is Mark Lee's mom, momily, and she is out on a daily basis, making it
her mission to help service members, their families, the gold star families around the world. So
if you want to get involved or you just want to donate, go to americasmightywariers.org. And if you
want some more of my inept interpretations or you would like to hear more of Eko's prolonged
proclamations, then you can find us on the inner webs on Twitter, on Instagram, and on Facebook,
that goes at Eko Charles and I am at Jockel Willingkin to all the folks out there in uniform, actually
enacting and living, these military principles to keep us safe and free. Thank you to all of you
and to police and law enforcement and firefighters and paramedics and EMTs and dispatchers and
correctional officers and board of patrol and secret service. Thanks to all of you for holding
the line for us here on the home front. Now, everyone else out there. Listen,
who she said, that maybe we should try to shake the world with awesomeness. But like he also said,
stay balanced. Don't run with that idea. Stay on the high road. Don't dwell in magnificence and power.
That's your ego. Keep that thing in check. Instead follow the way how things should be done. Do things
with righteousness. Do things with propriety. That means you hold the standard. That means you
conform. It actually means you conform to doing what is right. Be benevolent. Take care of people.
And if you do those things and you do them humbly, well, then you can get out there
and shake the world with awesomeness, not for yourself. But for others. And that is leadership.
And until next time, this is echo. Benjaco. Out.